Add Graph Insights and Watchdog Explains docs (#24141)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains.md

---
title: Watchdog Explains
aliases:
    - /graphing/correlations/
    - /dashboards/correlations/
further_reading:
- link: "/watchdog/insights/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Watchdog Insights"
---

## Overview

{{< beta-callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/private-beta/watchdog-explains-graph-insights/">}}
Watchdog Explains is available in Private Beta. To request access, complete the form.
{{< /beta-callout >}}

<div class="alert alert-info">Watchdog Explains is available for <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/dashboards/widgets/timeseries/">Timeseries widgets</a> with the <strong>Metric</strong> data source.</div>

> {{< img src="dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains/watchdog_explains_walkthrough.mp4" alt="Your image description" video=true >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains/watchdog_explains_walkthrough.mp4" alt="A walkthrough of the Watchdog Explains product" video=true >}}
```

Author: Oops! Thank you ❤️

2. **Then, it runs the same query filtered on each applicable tag group**. It compares the same timeseries data across each applicable tag group against the source graph to identify which ones represent that anomalous behavior. 
   - If a graph’s shape changes significantly by removing an individual tag group, it infers that the tag is mostly likely the cause of the spike. 
   - Watchdog Explains shows you evidence to quantify exactly how influential a given tag is.

## Investigate anomalies

Start your investigation from any timeseries metric graph. Open a graph in full screen to trigger Watchdog Explains.

{{< img src="dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains/graph_anomaly_detection.png" alt="Watchdog Explains highlights the anomalous parts of a graph based on historical data" style="width:90%;" >}}

Watchdog Explains highlights anomalies with a pink box. On the right side panel, you can view the tags that are responsible for the spike. Click on a tag to see evidence of how it contributes to the graph shape.

> {{< img src="dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains/graph_filter_tag.png" alt="Filter out the offending tag, in this case researcher-query, to compare the original against what the graph would look like without the offending tag" style="width:0%;" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< img src="dashboards/graph_insights/watchdog_explains/graph_filter_tag.png" alt="Filter out the offending tag, in this case researcher-query, to compare the original against what the graph would look like without the offending tag" style="width:90%;" >}}
```

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```

Reviewer: We're not consistent about this, just flagging it for consistency within the PR
